PKI SCEP documentation updates (#30753)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/auth/scep.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: SCEP - Auth Methods
description: The SCEP auth method is used to authenticate clients using the PKI SCEP integration, it isn't useful by itself.
---

# SCEP auth method

The SCEP auth method is an enterprise-only feature that allows control of static challenges and Intune authentication
methods for clients using the SCEP protocol within given PKI mounts.

## Authentication

This auth mount isn't to be used directly, but rather through
[delegated authentication](/vault/api-docs/system/mounts#delegated_auth_accessors) from a PKI mount.

> Multiple PKI mounts can use the same SCEP auth mount, if the SCEP role name is not provided within the PKI mount's

Reviewer: Suggestion, change to: "... auth mount. If the SCEP role name ..."

configuration, the first matching SCEP role will be based on matching criteria. If a PKI mount has configured an Intune
integration, it will only match SCEP auth roles with `intune` set as the `auth_type`, otherwise it will attempt to match
the SCEP auth roles with `static-challenge` set as the `auth_type`.

## Configuration

> The SCEP auth method is configured through roles. Within each SCEP role, the `auth_type` specifies if the role
> is using static challenge authentication or Intune authentication.
> 
> ### Static challenge authentication type
> 
> Within the SCEP role, if the `auth_type` is set to `static-challenge`, the SCEP role will allow usage of the challenge value
> specified within the role's `challenge` field.
> 
> If the challenge value is repeated across multiple roles, the PKI mount will need to specify the scep role name
> within it's configuration to match the appropriate role, otherwise the first matching role will be used,
> which might not have the correct policy attached to it.
> 
> ### Intune authentication type
> 
> If the SCEP role has a value of `intune` for the `auth_type`, the SCEP role will allow usage of Intune authentication
> if the PKI mount is requesting it.
> 
> If multiple roles are configured with the `intune` authentication type, the PKI mount
> will need to specify the scep role name within it's configuration to match the appropriate role, otherwise the first
> matching role will be used, which might not have the correct policy attached to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the SCEP authentication method through roles. Within each SCEP role,
specify the authentiation type with `auth_type` to indicate whether your SCEP
mount uses static challenge authentication or Intune authentication.

`auth_type`        | Authentication
------------------ | --------------
`static-challenge` | Method specified in `challenge` parameter
`intune`           | Intune authentication

When the authentication methods repeast across multiple roles, You must
configure your PKI mounts with the prefered SCEP role name to match with the
appropriate role. If you leave the role name unset, the SCEP mount returns the
first matching role, which might not have the correct policy attached to it.
```

Style correction: write in active voice, avoid "this" as a pronoun, make similar information easy to scan to find difference

## API

> The SCEP auth method has a full HTTP API. Please see the [SCEP auth API](/vault/api-docs/auth/scep) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SCEP auth method has a full HTTP API. Refer to the [SCEP auth API documentation](/vault/api-docs/auth/scep) for more details.
```
